Although mSINGS supports custom loci to be analyzed, there are several steps we recommend for users in order to establish and QC new panels of microsatellites.  General steps and guidelines for identifying appropriate microsatellites in your capture design, and for selecting which microsatellites to include in your final analysis are provided below:

1) Catalog microsatellites present in your host genome.  There are a number of algorithms available to to this, but one we have found particularly easy to use is MISA (http://pgrc.ipk-gatersleben.de/misa/). 
2) Limit the list of microsatellites to those which are present in your capture design.  This can be done by converting the location of identified microsatellites from step #1 to BED file format, converting the coordinates of your capture design to BED file format, and using the BEDTOOLS intersect function to find where these two files overlap (http://bedtools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/content/tools/intersect.html).  
3) Generate support files and a baseline file from no fewer than 10-20 specimens, as detailed in the readme.
4) Examine the baseline file.  Identify any loci which have an average peak count of 1.0 / standard deviation of 0.0, as these loci may cause artifacts.  These should be removed from the baseline file and the original locus BED file.  The intervals file will need to be re-generated with the edited input BED file.
5) Perform mSINGS analysis of the individual files that you used to generate your baseline with the edited files.  Any remaining loci which are called as unstable in a measurable fraction (~10% or more) of known negative specimens should also be dropped due to their potential to cause artifacts.  Remove these loci and edit files as in step #4
6) Optional - if you have access to a number of known MSI positive specimens (10 or more), it can be helpful to analyze them at this point.  Discriminatory power of mSINGS can be improved if uninformative loci (those which are not unstable in 1 or more known MSI specimens) are removed from the panel.  You may remove uninformative loci as in step #4.  If these specimens are not available, be aware that an empirically-determined cutoff for discriminating MSS form MSI-H specimens may need to be established for your assay.
